So now we're going to
try out our new syntax.
What we're gonna do is write very similar
functions to the three functions that we
just wrote with the function keyword.
Where we had multiply,
yell, and longer than.
We're gonna write the functions divide,
whisper and
shorterThan that kind of do
the opposite of those things.
And this time when we
declare these functions,
we're gonna use this arrow syntax, okay?
So let's take a few minutes,
try to work through it and
then we'll talk about
the solutions together.
And this time you have to use arrows.
So, this time we're doing,
instead of multiply we're doing divide and
we're using arrows.
So let's go back to our console,
who would like to talk me
through their multiply solution?
>> I think divide.
>> Sorry, divide, their divide solution.
[LAUGH] Yeah, OJ?
>> const divide = (x,
y) => x / y.
>> x and then divide is which operator?
>> /
>> / y like this?
>> Yes.
>> Okay and so now if I divide,
I don't know, 9/3, sorry,
divide (9, 3) we should get 3 yes.
And [LAUGH] 9/3 divided by
undefined is not a number.
[LAUGH] Great, okay, how about the next
one was whisper, so, the opposite of yell.
This time we're gonna take
in an uppercase string and
log it in lowercase to the console
using an arrow function, Paul?
>> Okay, so const whisper = and
then in parentheses, (text).
>> Sure.
>> And then the =>
>> Yep.
>> And then it's text.toLowerCase
with parentheses.
>> Like that, okay.
>> Parenthesis, it didn't work.
It just came out and said,
hey, this is a function.
[LAUGH]
>> Yes, exactly So
there's a difference between
properties and methods.
We talked about properties on
objects point to things, right?
And so when we use just the dot with
no parens, the dot and the name and
no parens.
We're pointing to the thing that this
property points to which is a function.
If we wanna actually use that
function we have to use the parens.
Okay, so
now this if I whisper("OMG") we're
going to evaluate that
to the expression OMG.
Which for example I could capture as,
I don't know,
as a output as a new variable.
Yes, so this is great for returning
the lowercase version of the string.
But what I also asked us to do is
log it in lowercase to the console.
So this would require us to do
something a little bit different.
This is also a valid function, it just
does something a little bit different.
This returns us the value.
What if we wanted a version of this
function that doesn't actually return
the value but logs it to the console
instead using a fat arrow?
So I'm gonna make a whisper2.
Any guess how we do that?
Paul, do you wanna take a stab at it?
>> So we're doing both, we're returning
and printing out, or just printing?
>> We can just print out for now.
>> Okay, so it's the same thing, you do
text, and then the fat arrow function, and
then just console.log
>> Okay so console.log.
>> And then the text.toLowerCase.
>> toLowerCase, okay so
now if I whisper2("OMG")
we get out the value.
And in this case, the return value
of this function is gonna be what?
If I were to do let
output1 = whisper("OMG"),
what do you think output2 is gonna be?
Undefined, okay.
>> You ran the wrong one, you ran.
>> I ran whisper instead
of [LAUGH] good call, okay.
And this is why we use let is
because we can resign them.
Okay, so now output2 should be
what we expect which is undefined.
Okay, what if we wanted to do both?
What if we wanted to both log and return?
I see Jason nodding,
do you want to take a stab at this one?
We could make a whisper3, let's say
>> Yeah, so we would-
>> Sorry,
I'm just gonna clear this out here.
Okay, so whisper3.
>> Yep, so basically the same
thing we had before with
the exception of adding and
opening curly braces.
>> Curly braces, exactly.
So now I wanna do two things,
I wanna have multiple lines of code.
So now I would have to do?
>> You could console.log it here and
then you could, well actually,
what I did was I assigned
it to a variable.
Once I converted it to lowercase,
I put that as a variable.
And then I console.log the variable and
then I returned the variable.
>> Great, let's walk me through it just so
we can go through that a little slower.
>> Sure, so const, whatever we want to
call it, lc for lowercase or whatever.
>> Sure.
>> = text.toLowerCase, yep.
>> Okay.
>> So we would console.log,
on the next one, we'd console.log and
then put lc, and then return lc.
>> Right, so in this case,
if I wanna avoid repeating myself with
text.toLowerCase, text.toLowerCase,
blah, blah, blah.
We can use variables, that's exactly
what variables are great for
is remembering the thing.
And then I can reference that
variable in my function body.
And we just need to remember that return
keyword if we're using a curly braces
function body.
So now if I do, let, I can't remember
what it was, result3 whisper3("OMG").
So now I see OMG got printed out to
the console when I called whisper3 and
result3 is also the value of the string.
Great, excellent work, everybody.
Okay, last one, shorterThan,
this is where we're gonna take 2 arrays.
And in this one, I would say let's use
the approach where we're returning
the value of the operator,
the expression using greaterThan.
So, without trying to use the if else,
can anybody walk me through
their solution, Chu?
>> const shorterThan =
>> Sorry, one second,
let me make some room here.
Okay, const shorterThan =
>> = (a1, a2)
>> a1, a2 great.
>> =>
>> a1 > a2.
>> Okay, so a1 > a2.
Where in this case, these two items,
which again JavaScript
doesn't care what we pass in.
But we know that we're
gonna be passing in arrays.
And what we just want to
do is make sure that the >
operator does what we expect on arrays.
So what we want to know is how
many things are in the array?
So let's try this out, shorterThan,
what do we have, 1,2 and
I don't know 1,2,3.
And in this case,
we're maybe getting something
a little bit different than we expected.
Let's figure out what's going on here.
So if I have an array > some other array,
this this operator is not
working the way I expect it to.
As it would for example if I asked if 4 or
a silent 2 is > sorry,
am I using the wrong direction, yes.
Yeah, I think I typed this
wrong the first time.
We want shorter than, so
we want to know if it's less than.
[LAUGH] My bad.
Let's try this this way,
okay so 1,2 < 1,2,3.
Okay, there we go [LAUGH]
that's what's happening.
All right, great, so
I think what happened is I just typed
the wrong character here, great.
[LAUGH] It happens to the best of us.
Did anybody have a different solution?
Yeah.
>> Can you use the .length to make
sure that you've got the actual
length of the array?
>> Yeah, so we could also use
the .length and in this case,
I'm gonna write the right operator.
[LAUGH] So we could use a1.length >
is that what I did the first time?
a2.length, is that what you meant?
Great, and of course I didn't even
remember to name this shorterThan2,
but thankfully JavaScript is reminding me
that I already declared a shorterThan.
So I can't redeclare it, so
shorterThan 2, too short too furious,
is going to be [LAUGH] let's say
if we do 1,2 and then 1,2,3, or
1,3,3, it's also going to
return what we expect.
And this time I typed the operator
in the right direction.
So okay, so these are now equivalent,
essentially.